CogX 2020 Talk Proposal - Binder (Sarah) (#353)
WhitakerLab/WhitakerLabProjectManagement: talk-proposals/SGibson-CogX20-BinderHub.md

mybinder.org is both a public service and a proof of concept of Project Binder's technologies.
This site serves over 140,000 sessions per week and combines resources from four entities in the US and Europe, including The Alan Turing Institute.
We support a range of programming languages and analysts from a range of research domains, and even facilitate a number of remote workshops and tutorials.
The flexibility of mybinder.org in allowing users to configure their environments provides scope to support a broad range of domains.
See the Natural Language Processing course powered by mybinder.org (https://spacy.io/) and a Machine Learning course for explainable AI (https://github.com/GitiHubi/courseML).

During the Covid-19 pandemic, mybinder.org has seen a significant increase in usage correlating with the beginning of lockdown and many researchers began working and collaborating remotely.
It is quickly becoming the "go to" tool for sharing results and facilitating remote teaching in this new landscape of research culture.

Dr Sarah Gibson is a member of the mybinder.org operating team and is personally responsible for maintaining the Binder infrastructure deployed at the Turing.

> During this talk, She will introduce Binder (the service), BinderHub (the technological infrastructure) and mybinder.org (a public instance of a Binder service, free for anyone to use) and demonstrate how it can be utilised to share reproducible computational environments and analyses.

Author: ```suggestion
During this talk, she will introduce Binder (the service), BinderHub (the technological infrastructure) and mybinder.org (a public instance of a Binder service, free for anyone to use) and demonstrate how it can be utilised to share reproducible computational environments and analyses.
```

_Please select up to two domains that best apply to your research and talk proposal._

- [ ] Natural world
- [ ] Security
- [x] Engineering
- [ ] Health
- [x] Society & Culture
- [ ] Economics

## Methodological Application

_Please select which methodological problem areas apply to your research and talk._

- [ ] Finding ways to automate the lengthy process spent preparing data for analysis
- [ ] Preventing misuse of data-driven technologies and artificial intelligence
- [ ] Using and analysing data in order to confidently infer causal relationships
- [x] Empowering citizens to access, understand and exploit the world's data
- [ ] Improving the ways in which we collect and analyse data
- [x] Effectively and efficiently convey information to varying audiences
- [ ] Merging multiple sources of data
- [ ] Using data while protecting privacy
- [ ] Merging human knowledge with data-driven machine learning and AI systems
- [ ] Eradicating failures within interacting systems
- [ ] Optimising algorithmic and system performance for bigger and more complex datasets
- [ ] Building on the most effective methods across data science to produce the next gen of techniques

## Relevance

> 

Author: Restructure Relevance section to be more around "why would a CogX attendee come to my talk".
Try to weave in tracks: ed tech rev, leadership, next gen infra.

_Please explain the relevance of your talk to the CogX audience, and the global impact of your research._
_500 words max._

In order to "get the next 10 years right", the research community needs to undergo a cultural and practical shift in how we share and communicate scientific progress, towards embracing openness and collaboration more than ever before.
One part of this shift is embedding reproducibility into our scientific workflows.
If code and data are not available for interrogation and results can't be reproduced, it becomes much more difficult to build on top of them and advance the domain.

> It is also unethical to do work that is closed and cannot be built upon quickly.

Author: I'd like to say more about _why_ it is unethical. But. The only examples I can think of are like the Health and Policy domains having a negative impact of people's quality of life. However, I think feel like I should caveat that with "whilst protecting people's privacy" and I feel like I'm now arguing against myself 😅

Author: @KirstieJane can you suggest a sentence here please?

Author: Actually never mind, I restructured this section 😄

Binder has provided a technological pathway to lowering the barrier to producing and sharing reproducible research, making it accessible to a broad range of analysts on a global scale.
The literate programming style of Jupyter Notebooks combined with the hosted compute so that users don't have to worry about installing and running the code also opens up the results to a wider range of stakeholders who may not be familiar with the computational analytical aspect of research, such as corporate, government and third sector parties.

During the Covid-19 pandemic, mybinder.org has seen a significant increase in usage correlating with the beginning of lockdown and many researchers began working and collaborating remotely.

> It is quickly becoming the "go to" tool for sharing results and facilitating remote teaching in this new landscape of research culture.

Author: Shall I remove this duplicated paragraph?

This site serves over 140,000 sessions per week and combines resources from four entities in the US and Europe, including The Alan Turing Institute.
We support a range of programming languages and analysts from a range of research domains, and even facilitate a number of remote workshops and tutorials.
The flexibility of mybinder.org in allowing users to configure their environments provides scope to support a broad range of domains.

> See the Natural Language Processing course powered by mybinder.org (https://course.spacy.io/) and a Machine Learning course for explainable AI (https://github.com/GitiHubi/courseML).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the Natural Language Processing course is powered by mybinder.org (https://course.spacy.io/) has over 5000 users, and the Institute of Computer Science at the University of St. Gallen uses our infrastructure for their university-wide Machine Learning course for explainable AI (https://ics.unisg.ch).
```
